in a car this talented young man takes
things to the extreme by riding his BMX
bike troopas and Siddhas come all the
way from his hometown in Truro Nova
Scotia to this indoor bike facility Anya
I'll be trained for what he does best
defy gravity he's preparing for the
Toronto BMX Jam the biggest BMX
competition in Canada to do this he's
going to have to push his limits and the
limits of his bike this is a general
Buicks blanking instead of how you want
it with me personally I ride my pegs on
the right side because that's my side I
grind on grinding is just one of many
tricks in BMX riding the tail with a
little more advanced does learn some of
these more advanced tricks require
special breaks VX points we have a
pretty complex braking system which
allows us to spin the bars 360 degrees
and I have our cables tangle up and they
call it a gyro it's a piece that has
bearings in it and then the cables come
from the top and bottom and then split
off so and then they match up so when
you pull your brakes it pulls the thing
which continues our brake cables down
here brakes Drew's going to have to do a
lot more than a few bar spins to win the
competition usually a month or two
before the event they'll put up a dragon
what this course is going to look like
your brain starts working like a wheels
start turning and think of bike stuff I
think that you could do personally on
the course what's possible or you stuff
you want to try absolutely a few days
you really come here and ride enjoy ride
can you answer a contest that I have in
mind which you'll have to wait to see
Drew and his friends practice combining
a bunch of tricks they feel will suit
the Toronto course so I'm going to get
an estimate of that I think trick combos
are more difficult and get more points
in a competition get angry tricks dial
every trick in a combo has to be almost
perfect or well the next trick just
doesn't work and never speed for the
back flap darn close Oh bad oh we need
to do that again because they're pushing
the limits the consequences can be
deadly back we want to hit the wall I
cranked it out and then it would have
been lights it out but that's what draws
drew to the sport
mom check it and get up do it right
beginner you'll start to get afraid of
it every day like it just doesn't get
born for me it's just like my hobby like
what I love the nude it's just like
naturally good day without fear max it
just feels weird like it's just like
waking up and brushing your teeth like
you do it every day so that's like
that's how our game access No Boundaries
like you pick you to pick the tricks
what you want to do how you want to do
it is tricks for the competition our top
secret
Wow
over 70 Pro BMX riders are at the
competition for only 24 qualified for
the final is what
a lot of the riders are finding the
Toronto course very challenging
more riders
the pressure is on for riders have a
total of 10 minutes to show the judges
everything they
ruins in a costume escape his back wheel
is bent and the clock is ticking
tries to bang it into place he's going
to have any chance of winning now he's
really got to flash
get the riders answer back
to reveal his
maybe four check it and if we do circuit
forever
and that's exactly what he's going to do
with that gravity-defying trick drew
lands himself in first place all guts
all world
time to slow things way down now here on
wild sports